[Music]
in the third millennium BC Mesopotamian
Kings recorded and interpreted their
dreams on wax tablets A Thousand Years
Later ancient Egyptians wrote a dream
book listing over a hundred common
dreams and their meanings and in the
years since we haven't paused in our
quest to understand why we dream so
after a great deal of scientific
research technological advancement and
persistence we still don't have any
definite answers but we have some
interesting
theories we dream to fulfill our
wishes in the early 1900s Sigman Freud
proposed that while all of our dreams
including our nightmares are a
collection of images from our daily
conscious lives they also have symbolic
meanings which relate to the Fulfillment
of our subconscious wishes Freud
theorized that everything we remember
when we wake up from a dream is a
symbolic iic representation of our
unconscious primitive thoughts urges and
desires Freud believed that by analyzing
those remembered elements the
unconscious content would be revealed to
our conscious mind and psychological
issues stemming from its repression
could be addressed and
resolved we dream to
remember to increase performance on
certain mental tasks sleep is good but
dreaming while sleeping is better in
2010 researchers found that subjects
were much better at getting through a
complex 3D maze if they had napped and
dreamed of the maze prior to their
second attempt in fact they were up to
10 times better at it than those who
only thought of the maze while awake
between attempts and those who napped
but did not dream about the maze
researchers theorize that certain memory
processes can happen only when we are
asleep and our dreams are a signal that
these processes are taking
place we dream to forget
there are about 10,000 trillion neural
connections within the architecture of
your brain they are created by
everything you think and everything you
do a 1983 neurobiological theory of
dreaming called reverse learning holds
that while sleeping and mainly during
remm sleep cycles your neocortex reviews
these neural connections and dumps the
unnecessary ones without this unlearning
process which results in your dreams
your brain could be overrun by useless
connections and parasitic thoughts could
disrupt the necessary thinking you need
to do while you're
awake we dream to keep our brains
working the continual activation theory
proposes that your dreams result from
your brain's need to constantly
consolidate and create long-term
memories in order to function properly
so when external input Falls below a
certain level like when you're asleep
your brain automatically triggers the
generation of data from its memory
storages which appear to you in the form
of the thoughts and feelings you
experience in your dreams in other words
your dreams might be a random screen
saver your brain turns on so it doesn't
completely shut
down we dream to
rehearse dreams involving dangerous and
threatening situations are very common
and the Primitive Instinct rehearsal
Theory holds that the content of a dream
is significant to its purpose whether
it's an anxiety filled night of being
chased Through the Woods by a bear or
fighting off a ninja in a dark alley
these dreams allow you to practice your
fight or flight instincts and keep them
sharp and dependable in case you'll need
them in real life but it doesn't always
have to be unpleasant for instance
dreams about your attractive neighbor
could actually give your reproductive
Instinct some practice
too we dream to
heal stress neurotransmitters in the
brain are much less active during the
remm stage of sleep even during dreams
of traumatic experiences leading some
researchers to theorize that one purpose
of dreaming is to take the edge off
painful experiences to allow for
psychological healing reviewing
traumatic events in your dreams with
less mental stress May Grant you a
clearer perspective and an enhanced
ability to process them in
psychologically healthy ways people with
certain mood disorders and PTSD often
have difficulty sleeping leading some
scientists to believe that lack of
dreaming may be a contributing factor to
their
illnesses we dream to solve
[Music]
problems unconstrained by reality and
the rules of conventional logic in your
dreams your mind can create Limitless
scenarios to help you grasp problems and
formulate solutions that you may not
consider while awake John Steinbeck
called it the committee of sleep and
research has demonstrated the
effectiveness of dreaming on problem
solving it's also how renowned chemist
August kakula discovered the the
structure of the Benzene molecule and
it's the reason that sometimes the best
solution for a problem is to sleep on it
and those are just a few of the more
prominent theories as technology
increases our capability for
understanding the brain it's possible
that one day we will discover the
definitive reason for them but until
that time arrives we'll just have to
keep on
dreaming
[Music]